Welcome to Cinema Summary, ladies and gentlemen.
Now I’ve got a question for all of  ya:
How would you get away with stealing a million dollars?
Well, buckle up because you’re gonna figure out how to do so
real soon.
This is Logan Lucky.
So the first thing we see is a man working
on his truck with a little girl helping him
out. This is Jimmy Logan, an unlucky man living in West Virginia and that is his precious
little girl, Sadie who's very excited to be part
of the beauty pageant that’s gonna happen
real soon although she doesn't know what song she wants to sing. Now Jimmy was a construction
worker who’d been working on some tunnels beneath the Charlotte Motors Speedway. But
one day he’s fired because his paperwork
never mentioned that he had a limp
So, frustrated, he drives away, listening to John Denver’s classic
“Country Road (Take Me Home)”, his favorite song
Which is gonna come up later in the film
He stops at Hairwer, a beauty salon where
his sister, Mellie works to pick up Sadie
from her rehearsal practice. Which is a shame
since the practice rehearsal was yesterday
and Mellie had to pick Sadie up. And Mellie
prattles on and on about what she had to do to pick up Sadie and ends it
by telling Jimmy, plain and simple that
“Bobbie Jo” is very angry with him.
And then we Jimmy go to this really fancy pants house
and he’s here to talk to with his ex-wife, who IS Bobbie Jo. And BOY
is she ANGRY with Jimmy: she cannot believe he didn’t pick up Sadie from practice, and
just from the way they talk, this isn’t
the first time Jimmy Logan screwed up.
And as they're talkin' and talkin', Sadie comes running up to greet her daddy,
followed by Bobbie Jo’s current husband, Moody
Sadie tells Jimmy that she finally knows what she wants to sing
for the pageant: Umbrella, y'know, that "Rihanna" song?
And after some bickering, Jimmy leaves, but not before Bobbie tells him that she will
be moving soon with Moody and Sadie’s coming with them. Jimmy doesn’t like it, and tells
Bobbie that he’s going to get a lawyer to
argue against it but with no job,
how’s he going to pay for the lawyer?
That night he stops by the Duck Tape bar where
his brother, Clyde works. Now Clyde’s interesting because he believes in the Logan Family curse:
misfortune and bad luck has followed the Logan family forever. Except for Mellie, their sister
and after listening to Clyde goin' on and on about the curse, Jimmy goes to the bathroom
moments before Max Chilblain comes in:
Now he's a British jackhole of a businessman who owns an energy drink brand
as well as a NASCAR team. And the first thing he does is make fun of Clyde
for his one arm,
"The Kindness of a one-armed bartender!"
and then orders a Martini.
I think what's scary is that there are actually guys like that around
The martini's great but it could use some ice.
Although that's gonna be a problem since Clyde doesn't have any ice
since the local water plant got contaminated
and keep this mind 'cause this plot point pays off later.
Then Jimmy comes back to the bar and has a back and forth between him
and Max, who continues to disrespect Clyde. And during this back-and-forth we find out that Clyde did a
few tours in Iraq which is how he lost his
arm,
and after one final dig at the Logan Brothers
Max gets what’s coming to him. As Jimmy starts a bar brawl inside,
Clyde, goes outside
and with the help of a smoker named Earl makes a Molotov cocktail and uses it to set Max’s car on
fire. Setting the car alarm off and bringing
Max and his goons running outside to see their car
burning, and as Jimmy leaves, bruised and bloodied.
He says one word to Clyde: Cauliflower.
And that gets Clyde a little steamed up
The next day, Clyde wakes up to find Jimmy
making bacon and there's a list of rules for robbing a bank on the wall. As they talk during breakfast, we
find out a few things: Firstly, Cauliflower
is a code word that Jimmy uses when he has
an illegal scheme that he wants Clyde to help him with. Secondly
Clyde went to juvenile hall when he was 13 because he helped
Jimmy with one of his cauliflower schemes. Which explains why he got so angry at the bar.
But regardless of all that, Clyde is willing to listen to
Jimmy’s new Cauliflower scheme and that involves
"Charlotte Motor Speedway"
robbing the Charlotte Motor Speedway. Now the Charlotte Motor Speedway
is a busy place, that’s basically become
its own popular, little town meaning they
have their own security force with a lot of
rich people there who watch the race, but
the thing about the Speedway is that it’s
built over landfills that have since become sinkholes,
and it’s pipes have burst so now it’s
under renovations. Being fixed up by construction
crews like the one Jimmy was a part of. And because of his experiences fixing up the pipes he
knows that the Speedway uses pneumatic tubes to transfer money and they have these spread
throughout the entire stadium going to the
vault where all the money is kept. Jimmy plans
on robbing the vault on June 4, during the
Grocery Tax Lotto Show, when not a lot of
security will be there. But to get into the vault they’ll need Joe Bang's help
He’s a convict who knows his way around bombs and has experience breaking
into bank vaults. So, Jimmy and Clyde visit
him in prison and tell Joe that they want
his help but he refuses. He’s got money
from previous bank heists hidden in a secret
stash, why should he help them out?
Well, your wife found out about the money stash
and she ran off to Florida to marry a truck driver, and she took all the money with her.
So now Joe is willing to help but he’s got 5 more
months until he’s out. And that won’t be a
problem, since Jimmy and Clyde have a
plan to not only break Joe out before he’s
released, but get him to blow up the vault
and put him back into prison before anyone
notices he's gone. Joe’s in, but only if he gets his brothers to help them out and
only if his brothers get a bigger cut. Something the Logans don’t like one bit.
Sometime later, at a local fair, we see Mellie unpacking her car with Sadie’s help as Moody,
Bobbie’s husband, comes driving by in a
fancy car. And he starts ragging on Mellie
for her old car and how bad it is compared
to his own and Mellie makes fun of him for
not being able to drive stick, making him
feel a little self conscious.
Now Jimmy is also here
to meet with Joe’s brothers: Sam and Fish Bang, to get their help for the heist
and after little finagling, they’re in.
Later, Clyde runs his car into a convenience
store to get sent to the same jail that Joe
is in. As Mellie meanwhile takes note of a
prison transport van, writing down it’s
measurements as it stops at a gas station
as its driver goes into the store. Clyde is
able to then take this note to Joe in prison
where they begin making something out wood and we see a conspicuous can of gray primer
sitting nearby.
Back home, Mellie paints cockroaches with nail polish, and the plan to break Joe Bang out of prison
is starting to take shape as the Fish brothers buy a few essentials like garbage bags, a prybar, and a shovel.
Jimmy steals a firefighters outfit and a map from his old workplace and it’s there as he’s
leaving that he learns that the construction
at the speedway is finishing up real soon.
So the breakout plan is going to have to happen a week earlier,
A WEEK. EARLIER.
So Jimmy tells both Clyde and Mellie that they are going to need to hurry it up
And Mellie? Don't forget to call the baker,
We then find out that someone has sent a cake to Gleema Purdue
a woman who works at the Charlotte Motor Speedway specifically with the Vault.
And as Gleema is sharing her cake with her
co-workers, she’s called outside to find
that her car has been hit and she has to fill
out some paperwork. Eugh.
But when she finally gets back inside,
the vault door is sealed shut. Since the office is closing early, there’s
no way back inside which means she’s going to have to wait until tomorrow
to finish her cake. Aww man...
That night, Fish and Sam sneak onto the construction
site at the speedway where they start tampering with the pneumatic tubes, pouring painted
cockroaches into different tubes.
The next day, Joe asks a fellow prisoner, Naaman for help.
And we'll see how this pays off, later.
And while that’s happening, Gleema comes back to work, opening the vault
where she finds cockroaches crawling
all over the vault
and on her cake, she then calls a team of exterminators
and among them are Sam and Fish who after checking
the vault, call Jimmy to tell him that they
have a Code Pink. The heist is on.
So what is a Code Pink?
Well, if you remember from earlier, Mellie paints a bunch of different cockroaches, different colours
and these cockroaches are taken by Sam and Fish to the speedway, and then dumped into
the pneumatic tube system. Since it's only the pink cockroaches that got into the vault
They now which tube actually goes into the vault. And they're gonna use this information
In a very specific way. But first in order to get into the vault, they gotta get Joe Bang out of prison
It’s the day of the Race!
My heart's pounding! Boogidy, Boogidy, Boogidy!
Clyde’s working in the infirmary and Joe goes to the workshop
to drink some tap water before lunch, as for the Charlotte Speedway is filled with racers,
spectators, and camera crews.
As Bobbie and Moody are getting ready to take the kids to Sadie’s pageant,
Moody shows off his new car (with stick shift) to an unimpressed
Mellie who begins packing things in her car’s trunk and we see that she has some firefighter’s
outfits inside. Back with Joe, the warden
of the prison is making his rounds in cafeteria:
he’s one of those guys that cares about
how his prison looks good
more than he cares about his prisoners
So when, Joe begins puking, he’s dragged to the infirmary.
After all it wouldn’t look good if the prison had a ‘food problem’
As Mellie puts some finishing touches
on Sadie’s outfit and makeup, she begins
to make her way out of the building. She’s
got an important job to do so she she steals Moody’s car to do it
So Joe goes to the bathroom after getting
permission from the nurse and with Clyde’s
help, they begin their escape. As that’s happening, a prison transport van stops by the workshop
just as Joe and Clyde make their way out of the infirmary. They attach their wooden box
things painted gray to the bottom of the car
just in time as the van drives away and the
race is 2 minutes from starting. And that's when prisoners know that its time...
For a riot! In response, the warden causes the prison to enter a lockdown
and stops a prison guard from reporting the riot to keep the prison's perfect record.
Just as Fish and Sam blow up a generator, at least partially knocking
out power for the speedway, because now the electronic card readers at the speedway don’t work
"We got no plastic workin' at all."
Now everyone has to pay in cash.
Just in time as Joe and Clyde roll
out from under the prison van and run into
a familiar car and drive away with Mellie’s
help.
So it’s all coming together: The crowbar,
that was bought earlier in the film was smuggled
into the prison and used by Joe and Clyde
to get out of the infirmary. And the reason
why Mellie was watching that prison van
weeks before was to figure out its size, it’s
dimensions, it's size and its schedule. That
way Joe and Clyde can make those wooden box
things, paint them gray, and fit them underneath the van
to create fake bottoms that they then use to
escape from the prison. And then meet up with Mellie who then takes them to the Speedway.
Now the reason why Joe was talking with Namaan: was to get Namaan’s help in starting the
riot. That way they would enter lockdown mode for the prison and give Joe and Clyde enough time to
escape and make it to the speedway.
And if you’re wondering why Joe was drinking tap water, well remember
how I said that the local water plant
got contaminated? Joe is drinking contaminated
tap water, and he drinks so much of it that
he gets sick and ended up puking and then he
got sent to the infirmary. Where he Clyde
make their escape. You see how everything
is coming together? Now that he’s escaped,
now begins the actual heist. Are you ready
for it? Let’s go!
Jimmy breaks into the service entrance of
the Speedway, as the race is underway and
we find out that there’s a racer named Dayton
White and he’s sponsored by Max Chilblain.
Now Dayton is very meticulous with his diet, keeping
himself healthy to an insanely exact degree. But since he’s sponsored by Max, he has
to drink Max’s stupid energy drink on camera and let’s just say he ain’t happy about it one bit
Now since the race is really starting to get goin, the shopkeepers at the Charlotte
Speedway are forced to start putting away
their earnings into the tube system
early, not even bothering to count the amount of money being sent to the vault
And keep this in mind, because this becomes very important later in the film
Finally, Joe, Clyde and Mellie arrive at the speedway
Where Joe buys some things for the heist.
"Gimme two packs of those gummy bears."
And now the heist begins.
First step: Get beneath track.
Second step: make the bomb.
Sorry. Improvised Explosive Device.
Step 3: Send the bomb through the tubes. Step 4: Boom
Smoke starts coming out of the tubes which gets the attention of local security
who send a few guys down to investigate
For the Logans and Bang Brothers,
The heist is going good so far,
as they hooked up a vacuum that sucks the money from the vault straight into the garbage bags
into their garbage bags. And then they get a little greedy and try to increase the sucking speed
which leads to Clyde’s arm getting sucked
into the vacuum and Clyde stops the vacuum
machine and gets into fight over whether
or not Clyde should get his arm. But after
some convincing, he turns the machine on.
They got a job to do.
Meanwhile on the race track, Dayton starts
blacking out at the wheel and crashes his car
As for Fish and Sam, they put the moneybags onto a warehouse shuttle cart and drive off only to bump into two security
guards who ask them if they smelled any smoke. And although they act awfully suspicious
the guards let them go, but not without investigating further. There's something strange about those two.
And as they investigate, they find a room with smoke leaking out of it and
and there inside they find: Earl,
a friend of Clyde and Jimmy smoking a ciggy, that you might recognize from these 2 scenes.
who distracts the guards long enough for Joe to help out his brothers who can’t seem to get one of
the dang gates open. Realizing Joe’s been gone for too long, he goes to check on Joe and
runs into the guards who ask him if smelled any smoke. “Nope”. “OK, move along.”
and goes to help the Bang brothers out with the gate. Successfully opening it.
The brothers get away as Jimmy and Joe go back, with Joe and Clyde making their escape.
Meanwhile Dayton storms off in a huff: he
screwed up the race because he drank some
of Max’s stupid energy drink and he blames Max for costing him the race. As Max follows Dayton
he runs into Joe and Clyde. And he recognizes Clyde. Uh oh. And to make matters worse!
Jimmy and Mellie are going to be late for
Sadie’s performance!
So Joe and Clyde get out of dodge heading
back to the prison and Jimmy leaves as well,
checking his pickup truck to find the bags
of cash stored away in the back. By now, the
race is almost finished, and the prisoner’s
continue with the next step of the plan:
Cause a fire. Sort of. You see earlier in
the film, something I didn’t show you was
that the prisoners covered up the windows
and the cameras using a variety of things
so the Warden and the guards can’t look
into the cafeteria, so they have no other choice
but to call the local firefighters just in time for
Clyde and Joe, to sneak on a firetruck and get back into the prison, disguised as firefighters
With the guards never noticing.
Mellie finds her way back to the pageant just
in time to put the final finishing touches
to Sadie’s outfit but there’s one little
hiccup: her daddy said he’d be here!
But with no dad in sight she goes on stage and
stares into the crowd, ready to sing
Umbrella but then she sees her daddy’s there.
And she decides to sing a song that’s special to her daddy. Her daddy’s favorite song,
Country Roads (Take Me Home). And Sadie finishes her performance to great fanfare and Jimmy
now finished with the heist leaves his truck
with the money at a gas station.
The next morning, news reports come rolling in:
"Authorities, have confirmed, they have recovered money stolen from the Charlotte Motor Speedway"
It was found in a pickup truck at a gas station last night
after an someone called it in.
We then see a woman walking through the crime
scenes. This is Agent Grayson and she’s
investigating the Speedway Heist: checking
the vault and the tunnel where the vacuum
machine was. And there’s not much there but
she has a witness: Max Chilblain,
who claims that he saw Clyde and Joe at the Speedway and recognizes
Clyde as the one-armed bartender.
"You don't believe me do you? Dayton saw them too! Dayton can back me up!"
And then we find out from Agent Grayson, that Dayton told her
that he didn’t see any one armed bartender named Clyde. He LIED.
Speaking of Clyde, he’s armless and out of prison and when he gets home, glum as can be
He finds a special surprise waiting for him in a box from the Department of Veteran Affairs
The next day, Agent Grayson, comes to the prison demanding information from the
warden who doesn’t say anything that helps with the investigation. In fact, he intentionally
avoids any conversation about the riot. About Joe Bang, and about Clyde Logan.
So Agent Grayson has no leads: her suspects
have airtight alibis so she can't investigate them. Because officially
Clyde and Joe were ‘still at the prison’ at the time of the riot as for Jimmy he doesn’t
have a phone or a car with GPS so they can’t track his location. She’s got nothing.
Fast-forward months later, and Joe is free and the first thing he does is visit Clyde’s
bar to talk with Clyde who has new robotic arm. And we find out that since the heist,
Jimmy has been silent: neither Joe nor Clyde have heard anything from Jimmy. He might be
in Pittsburgh since Sadie and Bobbie Jo moved there with Moody there a while ago. But even that’s
debatable and so Joe leaves frustrated: Neither of them know what happened with Jimmy or why
the money was returned. Or who returned the money.
As for Agent Grayson? Well the company that
owns the Speedway is shutting Speedway Heist case: since a large amount of money was returned
and now they got a sizable insurance check, recouping their losses from the heist. But
here’s the thing: Agent Grayson and her
team have investigated and they couldn’t
find an exact amount of money that was made on the day of heist. Because if you remember,
none of the card readers worked and the money was never counted on the day of the heist.
So it’s very strange that the Speedway company was able to make an insurance claim
without ever knowing the exact amount of money that was lost. So for all they know: Only some of the money
money was ever returned. Now we then see Joe back home when he hears
a knock at his door.
He checks outside where he at first sees no one, he even checks around
the corner brandishing a shovel in case anyone’s nearby. There’s no one there but wait a second:
Why would this brand new shovel be here? And then he stomps his way to a nearby tree and digs into
his backyard to find a trash bag full of money marked with a red tie. Someone returned money
to his secret stash. We then see how the whole heist played out:
Jimmy hid a lot of details from the Bang Brothers. For one: he messed with the gate, stalling
the Bang brothers long enough for him to hide specific bags of cash, during the heist
these bags were then put into a dumpster, and then taken to a truck, driven by Earl.
And then taken to a landfill. Where they were dug up later
As to how Jimmy was able to figure out where they were and which ones were the right ones?
Well, Earl marked them down on a map, and the garbage bags were marked with red ties.
And also during the heist, Jimmy grabbed Clyde's arm and made sure
to hide any evidence that they were down there.
As for Jimmy? Well, he’s living in Pittsburgh,
back on good terms with Bobbie Jo and able to visit Sadie whenever he wants. And after
some time he goes back to visit Clyde where we reunite with our heisters: Clyde’s still
bartending, and Joe and Mellie seem to have a thing going on. And while he's there
Clyde asks Jimmy how he knew when to search for the money and the answer is pretty simple: because
the police were investigating Jimmy, they
tapped his phone however Jimmy
didn't pay his phone bill but somehow the phone service wasn't cut off. So he knew they were tracking him
So all he had to do was wait until he lost reception and service, and he knew by then
the police had stopped tracking him. And that’s
how Jimmy got away with stealing millions
of dollars. I guess the Logan family curse
was just a myth after all.
As Clyde continues to bartend, he’s called
over by a lonely woman who wants someone to drink with her. After all, it's bad luck to drink alone.
But here’s the kicker that’s
Agent Grayson, whose thinking of staying in Virginia a little while longer: waiting for
her chance to arrest the Speedway Heisters. Looks like the Logan Family curse strikes again
So you’re probably wondering about a few
things like why did Jimmy return the money?
And very simply it was to get the investigators off his trail. Because if you remember from  earlier,
they blow up a generator. That causes the
card readers at the speedway to fail meaning
that the shopkeepers now have to take cash only. And they put this cash into the pneumatic
tube system, with out counting it. And this
is crucial, because of this no one actually
knows the exact amount of money made on the day of the heist and no one knows the actual
amount of money that was stolen.
By returning a 'lot of money', it looks all of it
if not a majority of it was returned, even though we know better.
And it’s heavily implied that the amount
of the money the company made from the insurance
claim, was significantly larger than the actual amount of money stolen from them in the first place.
Which is great for the company, except they made it through less than legal means and
they don’t want the FBI finding this out.
So they shutdown the investigation, and they close
the case and consequently leave Jimmy alone. Now as to why Jimmy never told the Bang Brothers
about his plan? it's very simple: He didn’t want to split the money.
You see originally there were only supposed to be 3 heisters:
Jimmy, Joe, and Clyde. But to get Joe’s
help, they had to hire Sam and Fish and as
a stipulation, they had to give the Bang Brothers a majority of the money.
Which was a bad deal for the Logans
So in order to keep a majority of the money,
they had to make it look like all of it was given back
and that none of it was kept by the Logans that way the Bang Brother would
leave them alone. Since they had no reason to hassle them.
Now the reason why Dayton lied to Agent Grayson about not seeing Joe and Clyde at the Speedway
was that he wanted revenge.You see for Dayton: Winning is everything! and he blames Max for his losing the race
Because Dayton believes, that if he had never drank any of Max's
stupid energy drink before the race: He would've won.
So as a form of revenge: he intentionally lies to Agent Grayson,
telling her that he didn't see Joe or Clyde at the Speedway
making Max look like a liar in a federal investigation
Which finally brings me to  the Logan Family curse: Which I believe is
real and it’s that last shot with Agent
Grayson that convinced me. You see the Logans
have a lot of lucky breaks during the course
of the investigation: Max (Agent Grayson’s
only witness) is made a liar by Dayton’s
testimony,
and any questions that Agent Grayson has about
Joe and Clyde are left unanswered by the prison warden, and finally the company that got robbed
actually shuts down the investigation. All of these things allow the Logans to escape
but ironically they are also what bring Agent Grayson to West Virginia.
It’s almost like all the luck, they had earlier got turned around
And it looks like the Logan family curse will strike again.
With that being said thank you so much for
watching ladies and gentlemen, if you enjoyed
it leave a like down below. And subscribe
to get updated on my latest uploads.
Now if you'll excuse, I've got a job to do